.TH BOTDOCS 1 "2026-03-28" "botdocs 0.3.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
botdocs \- convert markdown documentation into a static website with AI chatbot
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B botdocs
.RI [ options ]
.I input
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B botdocs
converts a directory of markdown files into a fully static documentation website.
An optional client-side semantic search chatbot is included by default, powered by
Transformers.js running entirely in the browser with no backend required.
.PP
The build pipeline scans markdown files, parses front matter, converts to HTML,
generates vector embeddings for semantic search, and bundles everything into a
self-contained static site.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I input
Input directory containing markdown files. Required.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIdir\fR
Output directory for the generated site. Defaults to
.BR output .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-chat
Disable the AI chatbot functionality. The generated site will not include
semantic search or the chat interface.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-config " " \fIfile\fR
Path to a configuration file. If not specified, botdocs looks for
.B botdocs.config.json
in the input directory.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-theme " " \fItheme\fR
Theme to use for the generated site. Available themes:
.BR classic " (default), " material ", " minimal ", " slate ", " modern .
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose logging during the build process.
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Output the version number.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Display help information.
.SH CONFIGURATION
A
.B botdocs.config.json
file can be placed in the input directory to configure the build:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
{
  "title": "My Documentation",
  "chat": { "enabled": true },
  "build": {
    "chunkSize": 500,
    "chunkOverlap": 50,
    "topK": 5
  }
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
CLI options override configuration file settings.
.SH EXAMPLES
Build a documentation site from a directory:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
botdocs ./docs
.fi
.RE
.PP
Build with a custom output directory and verbose logging:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
botdocs ./docs -o ./site -v
.fi
.RE
.PP
Build without the chatbot:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
botdocs ./docs --no-chat
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use the material theme:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
botdocs ./docs -t material
.fi
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Successful build.
.TP
.B 1
Build failed.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I botdocs.config.json
Optional configuration file in the input directory.
.TP
.I output/
Default output directory containing the generated static site.
.TP
.I output/assets/vector\-db.json
Vector database used by the client-side semantic search.
.SH AUTHORS
usr-wwelsh <https://wwel.sh>
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at:
.UR https://github.com/usr-wwelsh/botdocs/issues
.UE
